---
title: PN courting Gozo
date: 2017-05-15 22:09:35
tags: [proposals, plans]
categories: [PN]
---

An outline to empower Gozitans is definitely in the works. The following proposals were drafted to make Gozo a better place.

<!-- more -->

Empowering the People: A Regional Council for Gozo
1. The Regional Status of Gozo shall be enshrined in the Constitution and the Laws of Malta.
2. We will launch the process for the statutory establishment of the Regional Council for Gozo in the first 100 days of a PN-led administration.
3. Government shall be bound to engage with the Regional Council for Gozo on all matters of vision and policy involving the island of Gozo.
4. The Regional Council shall have a wide representation of Gozitan society.
5. The Regional Council shall represent Gozo in the European Union fora for Regional territories and other similar international fora.
6. The Regional Council shall be able to tap into €250 million of EU funds.


A More Effective Ministry for Gozo
7. We will reform the Ministry for Gozo rendering it more efficient and with increased powers.
8. The Ministry for Gozo will appoint its delegate to relevant ministries and entities promoting and implementing Gozo’s policy at a national level.
9. The Ministry for Gozo will reinstate the Policy and Strategy arm that articulates Gozo’s strategy and vision.
10. We will set up the Gozo Regional Development Agency (GRDA) whose objective will be to attract national and foreign direct investment in Gozo and oversee infrastructural projects.


A Long-lasting Free Healthcare System
11. A PN-led adminstration will takes back full ownership of the onlys Hospital on the island Gozo.
12. We will ensure that BARTS Medical School in Gozo is completed without delay.
13. We will upgrade and re-purpose the Victoria health centre to adequately serve the primary healthcare and other ancillary outpatient needs for Gozitans.
14. We will extend the fully subsidized ferry trips to ALL patients requiring medical services at Mater Dei hospital not available in Gozo. The subsidy will also apply to an accompanying carer, be it next of kin or a caring friend.
15. We will set up a Diabetes- Endocrinology Clinic and a Cardiovascular Clinic offering resident consultant-led care in Gozo.
